Provide for Atomic Bridge and FFS Usage with Fixed Token Supply (#38)
movementlabsxyz/MIP: MD/md-38/README.md

# MD-38: Provide for Fixed Token Supply when Using Atomic Bridge and Fast Finality Settlement (FFS)
- **Description**: Requests for Movement Improvement Proposals (MIPs) to provide for fixed token supply when using the Atomic Bridge and Fast Finality Settlement (FFS).
- **Authors**: [Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@movementlabs.xyz)
- **Reviewer**: Andreas Penzkofer

## Overview

> ![Fixed Supply Rewarding Problem](./fixed-supply-rewarding-problem.png)

Reviewer: - this figure is displayed without any description or context. it is not referenced in the text anywhere.
- at no point burning is mentioned in this file
- There is no reference to the model that describes the DEX approach. also for the sake of this MD and the description of the burn problem the DEX is not necessary. I suggest to add a figure that has a simple direct bridge from L1MOVE <> L2MOVE, and where L2MOVE is the gas. Such a model seems to be minimal yet envelop the problem sufficiently.

Using Fast Finality Settlement with the Atomic Bridge presents a challenge when the token supply is fixed. 

Naively burning token on the L2 without a way to return it to either pools on the L2 or the L1 will result in a **deflationary token**, i.e., the supply decreases over time and eventually reaches 0 rendering any operations relying on gas impossible. Meanwhile, providing minting capabilities which involve the operation of fallible services can result in **either a deflationary or inflationary token** and the opportunity for **byzantine attacks**.

Namely, in this context, trying to use the same token for both L2 gas and L1 rewards requires that the token be bridged back over or else rely on a trusted signer to relay the gas. This document outlines the challenges and potential solutions for this problem.

Users of the Movement SDK should be **informed of different approaches and trade-offs when using the Atomic Bridge and Fast Finality Settlement with a fixed token supply.** This document provides an initial conceptual framing towards that end. 

This document also seeks a response to the concerns raised in [MD-20](https://github.com/movementlabsxyz/MIP/pull/20).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Definitions

- LP : Liquidity P???: 
- `$LP` : the LP token 

```

Reviewer: abbreviations should be defined (unless they are in the glossary, which LP is not)

  Each erratum should briefly describe the discrepancy and the correction made, accompanied by a reference to the date and version of the desiderata in which the error was identified.

  TODO: Maintain this comment.
-->

## Appendix

### A1: Suggested Solutions for Fixed Token Supply

| Name              | Description                           | Gas Destination       | Reward Form          | Challenges                          |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------|-------------------------------------|
| **Decoupled**   | • Gas spent on the L2 deposited to pools on the L2. <br> • Rewards on the L1 are issued in a LP token which is demurrage. <br> • Ideally, intermediary tokens are used in the bridge to shield gas and staking token from bridge fallibility. | Pool on the L2         | FFS LP Token; voucher periods can be assigned. | • LP Token's demurrage assigns a lifetime to the viability of the settlement protocol which will require a new or asymptotic token voucher or token generation event at some point. |

> | **Trickle-back** | • Gas spent on the L2 recirculates to pools on the L2. <br> • Rewards are provided on the L2 for bridging back to the L1 at the address of the FFS LP Token. <br> • Ideally, intermediary tokens are used in the bridge to shield gas and staking token from bridge fallibility. | Pool on the L2         | Staking Token               | • Rewards for pool providers to bridge back to the L1 at the address of the FFS LP Token need to be sufficient. <br> • Pool providers likely need to have only custodial access to token, otherwise intended rewarding game theory would likely be intractable. |

Reviewer: Staking token is not defined - at least there should be a reference to the relevant document

> | **Settle with Gas**            | • The settlement messages include the amount of gas spent. The LP for the FFS claims token locked in the L1 bridge. <br> • Bridge may still benefit from intermediary tokens.                              | FFS LP Token        | Staking Token               | • Unclear how to handle forks. <br> • Centralization remains as FFS contract needs to have capability to claim token locked in L1 bridge. However, this can be governed on-chain in this case. <br> • Intermediary tokens can still help reduce attack surface via the bridge. Now attacks would likely focus on exploiting capabilities of the settlement contract to unlock token. |

Reviewer: - what means "the LP for the FFS claims token locked in the the L1 bridge"
- "The settlement messages include the amount of gas spent." i assume you mean L2gas? i think we should clearly distinguish the gas kinds.. postconfirmers have L1gas cost but earn parts of the L2gas

> | **Noble Gasmaster**      | • A trusted signer is responsible for successfully relaying gas spent. The use of intermediary tokens in the bridge is moot.              | FFS LP Token         | Staking Token             | • Centralized signer.   |

Reviewer: similar to the "acceptor" is there a way how any validator can be permitted to transfer L2 pool tokens to the L1 reward contract? (at the cost of L2fees and L1fees for that validator)? 

Similar to the Acceptor model, a L1-selected acceptor could be responsible for transferring rewards from L2 to L1, and get rewarded on L1 for this, however a volunteer could transfer also the L2RewardPool balance to the L1RewardPool balance (at their own cost)

> | **Free Execution**      | • Execution does not charge gas fees, meaning gas token stays in circulation and supply does not change.             | Nowhere         | Staking Token or FFS LP Token             | • No sybil resistance; not suitable for anything but promotional or initial stages of a network. <br> Gas fees do not contribute to rewards, so rewards rely solely on initial grant and perhaps LP. Execution does not have cost in token and so cannot drive work-based benefits in token. |

Reviewer: need a reference to a MD / MIP that exlpains Staking Token and FFS LP Token

  Each erratum should briefly describe the discrepancy and the correction made, accompanied by a reference to the date and version of the desiderata in which the error was identified.

  TODO: Maintain this comment.
-->

## Appendix

### A1: Suggested Solutions for Fixed Token Supply

| Name              | Description                           | Gas Destination       | Reward Form          | Challenges                          |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------|-------------------------------------|
| **Decoupled**   | • Gas spent on the L2 deposited to pools on the L2. <br> • Rewards on the L1 are issued in a LP token which is demurrage. <br> • Ideally, intermediary tokens are used in the bridge to shield gas and staking token from bridge fallibility. | Pool on the L2         | FFS LP Token; voucher periods can be assigned. | • LP Token's demurrage assigns a lifetime to the viability of the settlement protocol which will require a new or asymptotic token voucher or token generation event at some point. |

> | **Trickle-back** | • Gas spent on the L2 recirculates to pools on the L2. <br> • Rewards are provided on the L2 for bridging back to the L1 at the address of the FFS LP Token. <br> • Ideally, intermediary tokens are used in the bridge to shield gas and staking token from bridge fallibility. | Pool on the L2         | Staking Token               | • Rewards for pool providers to bridge back to the L1 at the address of the FFS LP Token need to be sufficient. <br> • Pool providers likely need to have only custodial access to token, otherwise intended rewarding game theory would likely be intractable. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Trickle-back** | • Gas spent on the L2 is collected in pools on the L2. <br> • Rewards are provided on the L2 for bridging back to the L1 at the address of the `$RewardToken`. <br> • Ideally, intermediary tokens are used in the bridge to shield gas and staking token from bridge fallibility. | Pool on the L2         | Staking Token               | • Rewards for pool providers to bridge back to the L1 at the address of the FFS LP Token need to be sufficient. <br> • Pool providers likely need to have only custodial access to token, otherwise intended rewarding game theory would likely be intractable. |
```
